hey everyone it's neil patel and today
is another day of sierra unlocked today
we're going to be going over cro best
practices if you missed the first lesson
in this two-week training course on
conversion rate optimization make sure
you check out neilpatel.com
training and click on
cro unlocked and you'll find all the
lessons there as well as previous cheat
sheets worksheets handouts everything
that you need to be successful with
conversion rate optimization
so now that we got that out of the way
let's dive right in
the key to cro is iteration you're not
going to do a test and find out that you
double your conversions that's very very
rare it happens but once in a blue moon
typically it's a lot of little things
that add up that truly help you optimize
your conversion rate the big secret is
one test at a time
per step within your funnel so for
example if you have a pricing page you
don't want to run two to three tests at
a time on that exact pricing page but
you can run a test at a time one on your
pricing page maybe one on your contact
page maybe one on your home page and
that's fine assuming you have enough
traffic so that way you can get to
statistical significance quick enough
and you ideally want to start with very
simple tweaks and then from there get
into more drastic changes if you can't
continually get more wins right so once
you stop getting wins from the simple
stuff that's when you want to go into
drastic changes
the key pages to optimize well there's
quite a few and i'm going to cover some
of them in a bit but when you think
about the key pages to optimize i'm not
just talking about seo typically when
people think about optimization they're
like oh meta tags title tags you know
your schema markup how friendly is your
code that's a lot of seo stuff but
there's also on-site code that you can
optimize for conversion rate
optimization
such as do your titles in the copy help
generate the most sales how about the
bullet points within your copy or the
descriptions within your paragraphs or
how about the keywords are using do they
appeal how about the keywords within the
call to action buttons
all this stuff can drastically change
your conversion rate and your sales
process is not as simple as just getting
traffic and then it drives revenue it
more so looks like this where there's a
lot of different points from emails to
ads to upsells and the list goes on and
on
but funnels and sales process are
complicated no matter what if you're in
b2b or b2c so if i were you there's a
lot of pages that you could optimize
anywhere from your about page to your
key product details pages to your exit
pages your main landing pages your
conversion asset pages
there's a lot of pages and as you can
see i'm not just doing step one two
three four five
there's not necessarily an order on
which page is more important than the
other because every website is different
if you get ten times more
traffic to your checkout page than you
do to your contact page you probably
want to start with your checkout page
when it comes to optimization before
your contact page
when you're thinking about conversion
optimization keep in mind
people who are buying from you are human
beings
figure out what appeals to them how can
you make them happy how can you delight
their socks or more so knock their socks
off if you do that you'll start
generating more sales
now i want to get into a pricing example
because pricing can really impact your
revenue even the simplest and littlest
tweaks so there is this company called
gumroad and they observed a conversion
lift of up to 118 percent
when they started charging a dollar nine
versus two dollars
there's not really that much of a price
difference between a dollar ninety nine
and two dollars it's just one cent
but psychologically people believe that
it's a lot less and that every penny
saved really makes an impact for them so
when you're thinking about your pricing
think about what is more appealing to
people nine dollars is more appealing to
ten dollars
there's also a lot of conversion points
within your sales process and i showed a
little bit about that above in the
previous few slides when i broke down
that sales process and how there's
emails and different trigger points
but a few of them to start off with are
your ads your landing pages your offers
your emails your upsells
easy things that you can love when it
comes to conversions and we have a
conversion workbook for you that you can
use for this
which you can find at neilpatel.com
training click on cro unlocked week one
it's the first video in there and
underneath that video you'll find all
the assets and files that you need to
accomplish your task of improving your
conversion rate
when you think about people
they have different sides to their brain
are they logical more emotional
and you want to try to appeal to both
sides not just to one so then that way
you can maximize your conversions
and another thing that i love doing is
leveraging exit intents because people
are leaving your website it's a question
of where are they leaving and how can
you maximize your sales from that and
when you're running split tests with
things like your exit intent you'll find
that some variations have more
conversions than others or less but it's
all about testing and here's the example
of an exit intent and you can finding
out that you may do something simple to
collect emails or you could do something
more complex like
offer a discount right there and get
someone to check out it really varies
and you should test different offers
so how do you make your marketing work
better for you well first off
you don't need things to be that good
your conversion rate doesn't need to be
that amazing think about the toyota
example i did in the previous lesson
where it's just a lot of little tweaks
over time and that's how you win that's
how you build a big business you'll
never be as good as you want you'll
never be perfect and that's okay and you
should always have the
mindset that you can improve and be
better that's how you win and just keep
trying to raise the bar over and over
and here's an example in b2b this also
works in b2c if someone had 5 000
visitors their price point was 20 000
which is more normal than b2b than b2c
if your lead capture is 5 you got 250
leads your sales closing rate is 15
37 total sales that's 740 000
now if you're optimizing you have the
same traffic same price point but your
lead capture rate is eight percent
that's 400 lease even if your sales reps
close at the same percentage at 15
that's 60 sales instead of 740 000 your
new revenue is now 1.2 million that's
the power of optimizing before
conversions
and you'll see the difference that's a
460 000 difference right then and there
you don't even have to improve your
sales rate you're just improving your
lead collection rate
three percentage points
isn't that much and it doesn't seem that
much but when you look into it it could
actually improve your revenue quite a
bit just like the example that i showed
you
it's all about progressive optimization
just one optimizable step in your sales
process can have a huge impact in your
revenue and that's what we're going to
help you with throughout this course
and if you like this video share it tell
the people about it if you have any
questions just leave a comment below if
you need help you can always email us
also at support neilpatel.com and if you
want my team to do all the marketing for
you check out my ad agency
neil patel digital also known as np
digital where we help companies grow
their traffic and optimize their
conversion rates thank you